In course 6, we're talking
about the Windows registry, and
in this module, module 4,
we're going to talk about some common
forensic artifacts found in the registry.
Talking about the SAM hive file, and
SAM stands for security account manager.
SAM, is a root key of
the HKEY LOCAL MACHINE hive key.
The file path to the SAM file
within an image would be,
Under the root Windows\System32\config and
then we would see the SAM file.
To create a user account,
we can do that through control panel,
user accounts or manage,
local users and groups.
The SAM file is protected and
not able to be edited when you're viewing
it through the live machine and Regedit.
The SAM file stores and
organizes information about
every user on the system such as,
login information,
login password, hashes,
and group information.
There are built in accounts like
administrator, default account, and guest.
And then we have the user created account,
so
we can see the user name of Ivan,
Deejo, and new user, and new user 2.
User B user, created accounts and
the built in accounts would be
the administrator, default, and the guest.
When we view the SAM registry hive and
a registry tool,
it's going to look like
it does on the slide.
We're going to have SAM, and underneath
SAM we're going to have domains, and
underneath domains, we're going to
have a sub folder called accounts.
When expand that, we're going to
see users, then we expand users and
we're going to see names.
This is how we resolve a user name to a
user security ID, that are known as a SID.
The security ID can be broken down into
three parts, the issuing authority,
the machine or domain ID, and
then the rid, or relative identifier,
which identifies each
individual user on the system.
In Windows 10, user created accounts start
with the rid 1001, in Windows 7 and below,
they start with the user account 1000.
The software hive.
The software hive is also a root
key of the HKEY LOCAL MACHINE hive,
and you can find it down
the same file path, the root or
C:\Windows\System32\config, and
then we can see the software file.
The software file which will
show us things such as,
installed programs and applications,
the type of operating system,
and the operating system installed date,
information about
wireless networks that may have
been connected to by the machine.
We can see file association
like default applications.
We can see login information, and
we can also see attached devices.
User logon information,
will be in a subkey named Winlogon.
And the file path after that is
Microsoft\WindowsNT\CurrentVersion\Winlo-
gon.
Subkey name is LogonUI, and
the file path to that, is under
Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Authenti-
cation\LogonUI.
These are 2 subkeys where we can find user
logon information such
as the last logon user.
There are also auto start locations,
and software hard file.
And these are programs
that will run it start up,
when you build it into Windows
without any interaction from the user.
There are two subkeys here,
the run and the run once subkey.
The paths of the run key is under
Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run,
malware can be hidden in this key for
persistence and
it will start every time
the system is rebooted.
The software hive,
is going to show us installed programs and
applications under the subkey called
uninstalled, and the path to that
Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninst-
all.
And these are going to show us all
the programs that actually installed on
the system.
Even if the program has been deleted, you
will still see it under the uninstall key.
We'll also see the operating
system installed date and
time, and the release ID.
This is the subkey named currentversion,
and
the location is
Microsoft\WindowsNT\CurrentVersion.
So you see the type of file system,
whether it's Windows 10,
Windows 7, you'll see the build number,
and the release ID.
The system file, some of the artifacts
we can find within the system file
can determine the current control set,
we can find a computer name,
the last shutdown time,
settings for the crash dump, and
the location of the crash dump on
the file system, services are set to run,
whether or not the page file
is being cleared at shutdown.
We can see prefetch settings,
last access file time settings,
and we can also see the time zone
information, or the system time,
the time that that computer
is currently set to.
Now to determine the current controls set,
we need to use the select key.
And the select he is
right under the group.
So in the system hive, would expand
the root and highlight the select key.
And we would look at
the value name current, and
this will tell us whether it's 1 or
2, is usually control set 1,
and 2 is usually the less known good for
recovery purposes.
But the current value tells us
which control set was loaded as
the current control set when
the system was left shut down.
The system time, will be under
the subkey name Timezone Information.
And the path to that is going to be,
the current
ControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation.
The value name we're going to look at is,
Time Zone Key Name.
And this will tell us the time
zone that the computer is set to.
This is what it would look
like in a registry viewer.
And we can see when we look
at time zone key name, and
we see Eastern Standard Time.
So that's the time zone, that the computer
was set to when it was shut down.
And also right beneath time zone key name,
we see active time bias.
This was the active time bias, since at
the time the computer was last shut down.
We can see that we do have daylight time,
and that -60.
Standard time bias,
we can see at the top as bias, and
that's 300 minutes from UTC time.
And we can also see when daylight time
starts and when standard time starts.
We also have a subkey in the system
file called Computer Name, and
this will tell us
the name of the computer.
And that's located in
the ControlSet001\Control\ComputerName.
And the value name is ComputerName.
Now the computer name can be
given by the manufacturer or
the user can change the computer
name to one specific to them.
We also have a subkey
called Memory Management.
This is what determines whether or
not the page file is cleared at shutdown.
And the page file, again,
is one of those spot files that spots
information from random access memory.
So this may be a location on
the hard drive where we can get
information that was once stored in RAM.
The path to that is called
ControlSet001\Control\Session
Manager\Memory Management.
Now, when we look at the value,
ClearPageFileAtShutdown,
a value of 0 indicates that the page
file is not being cleared at shutdown.
If there was a value of 1,
the value of 1 indicates that the page
file is being cleared at shutdown.
We also have in the system file
a location called Services.
And services is an auto start location.
This is another location that
starts without user interaction
when we boot into Windows, and this
lists the services that run at startup.
This is also a possible location for
persistent malware.
So if you're doing incident response,
you would want to check here under
Services,and you'd also want to
check the run in the i for malware.
The last shutdown time, which is the last
time the computer was shut down,
not pulling the plug, but
went through a full shutdown.
The location for that is going to
be ControlSet001\Control\Windows.
The value name is going to
be Shutdown Time and
the time format is in 64-bit
Little Endian Windows file time.
And we can decode that
time with our decoder?
The system file also contains the crash
dump settings in a subkey named
CrashControl.
The location would be under
the ControlSet001 being the current
control set, Control, CrashControl.
The value name we want to look
at is Dumpfile and MinidumpDir.
These subkeys give us the location
within the file system where
the dump file is located.
In the system file,
we're going to find information on USB
connected devices and mounted volumes.
There are two subkeys,
USBSTORE and Mounted Devices.
The file path to USBSTORE would
be the current control set,
in this case, 001,
Enum\USBSTOR is the location for USBSTORE.
Location for Mounted Devices going to be
off of the Root\MountedDevices.
When we look at the USBSTOR key and
expand it,
we can see the serial
numbers highlighted in blue,
outlined in red here beneath
the device descriptions.
Those would be the serial numbers of the
devices that were attached to the system.
If we expand the property subkey,
we're going to see some GUIDs beneath it.
If we look at the GUID
beginning with 83 DA,
we can see keys starting with 003,
00A, 0064, 0065,
0066 and 0067.
The 0064 subkey gives us the first install
date and time of that particular USB
device.
The 0065 subkey will
give us the last install date and
time of that USB device.
The 006
subkey will give us the last time
the device was attached to the system,
the last arrival date and time,
and the 0067 tells us when that
USB device was last removed from
the system, last removal date.
So we can get quite a bit of information
about each of these USB devices,
the serial numbers and four dates and
times regarding the device being connected
and disconnected from the system.
We look at MountedDevices and
this is mapping devices to drive letters,
but it's not just USB device,
this is any volume mounted to the system.
So if you mounted a true volume or
a virtual hard drive,
it would also show up in
the MountedDevices subkey.
We can see this is what it would look
like viewing it through a registry tool.
And we can see we have DoS device E.
And if you look to the right in
DoS device E past the number sign,
we see a serial number for a USB device.
The NT user hive will contain information
like recently accessed documents,
typed URLs, user assist, run and
run once, and a Word Wheel query.
Now the run and
run once keys in this hive,
a specific program set to run at
startup for that particular user.
When we looked at it in the software file,
that was programs that were set to run and
start up system wide.
Typed URLs are URLs that are typed into
the Internet Explorer address bar.
So this only applies to
Internet Explorer and
this becomes populated when a user types
or uses the auto complete function to
type a web address into
the Internet Explorer address bar.
And the paths of this file is going to be
Software\Microsoft\InternetExplore\TypedU-
RLs.
Word Wheel query keeps
track of searches conducted
by the user from the start menu and
within the Windows Explorer.
It's going to contain an MRU order,
most recently used order,
a key last access date and
time, and the search term
that was typed by the user.
And the file path for this is
Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion-
\Explorer\WordWheelQuery.
The recent docs subkey tracks recently
used documents, and these documents
were accessed by the specific user
whose NT user hive you're viewing.
It also has recent docs broken
down by file extension.
And the file path to recent
docs is going to be software
Microsoft Windows current
version Explorer recent docks.
UserAssists key maintains a list of
items such as programs shortcuts and
control panel Apple IDs,
that a user has access.
And it's put here for
ease abuse by the user.
So it makes these programs
accessible from the start menu.
So the more you use a program it
will become included in this list.
It will be accessible from
the start menu for convenience.
The file path of this
particular he is software
Microsoft Windows current
version Explorer user assist.
And this is specific to
each particular user
because it's in the nt user dot high file.
So we can see what documents that user
had recently accessed the run and run.
One sub key.
These are programs that
are again set to run and
start up with any
interaction from the user.
The user may not even
be with their running.
These programs are specific to that user.
So when that user logs into the system,
these programs will run and
the path to that sub key is
going to be software Microsoft.
Windows.
Current version run now that we've
talked about all these artifacts,
were going to do a walk through and take
a look at them in the Windows registry.
The items were going to need
our the exported registry
files that we exported
from our forensic image,
our Windows VM DK file and
our registry Explorer,
our specialized tools to view the registry
end of block and this walkthrough.
We're going to take a look
at the registry files,
some of the rhetoric files that we
exported during our previous walkthrough.
And we're going to look at them and
take a look at the artifacts we
talked about throughout this course.
We're going to start with the Sand file,
which is the one up here
SAM file right at the top.
We're going to expand
it would expand route,
expand SAM and expand domain accounts.
And then users underneath users
you can see separate folders
identified by each user's
rid relative identifier and
it's written in hexi decimal.
Now we're going to spend names.
Now what we're doing here is resolving
a user name to a user relative identifier.
I'm going to start with Ivan.
Okay.
So we select Ivan and
we look over to the right under values and
then we look down to the type viewer and
we can see in the value
type The Hexi decimal rid of three
E 9 which converts to decimal 1001.
So Ivan's relative identify
where those last four
digits on his sid are going to be 1001.
And this will help us identify the Ivan
user in other places on the system,
such as the recycle bin.
So this would be how we
would resolve a user name to
a user's read using the SAM file.
Now we can go ahead and take a look at
exodus Imo 39 that folder under users.
And we do see under we have a value
name called force password reset.
And that is zero.
So there are no force password resets for
the Ivan user.
And then we have a user password hint.
We can highlight that.
And down in the esky we can see that
the user's password hint is our goal.
And this would be the same for
another user.
If we choose D joe the user name.
De joe we can see in the value
type that that users grid and
hexi decimal is three EA and
their decimal 1002.
We can go ahead and
take a look at three EA.
And we can see they do not
have a force password reset.
They do have an internet user name and
we can see the email address associated
with that internet user name.
They have an internet
security identifier and
they have an internet you
ID unique identifier.
So we have an internet user name for
the user.
De joe we didn't have with the user Ivan.
Now let's take a look
at the software file.
So we're going to go ahead and
expand the software file.
Going to expand route.
We're going to expand Microsoft.
We're going to scroll down to Windows and
T expand Windows and T.
And we're going to
highlight current version.
This is going to show us information
relating to the operating system,
tells us where the system route is.
Under C.
Windows.
Mhm.
It gives us our current build number,
the addition ideas professional.
It gives us are installed date and that's
in you next time and we'll convert that in
a second, it tells us the product name is
Windows 10 pro and the release ID is 1903.
So let's go ahead and
convert that installed day.
We want to click on it,
highlight it right click and
we're going to copy the value data.
So we're copying that value
data this time is in UNIX.
We want to convert it, we're going to use
decode, we're going to right click paste.
So we've pasted the value data in there.
Now we're going to hit decode,
we decode it.
We're going to scroll down till we see
you next time and we see UNIX seconds.
UTC time and unique seconds local time.
So the UTC time,
It's going to be 2020 0202 At 21 57.
And the local time is
going to be the same date.
But the time is going to be 1657-02.
And that's because of the time zone
I'm currently in is central time and
that is -5 hours from UTC time.
So that's how we would decode the date and
time for the install date.
So we now know the different
users rids their relative
identifiers has been resolved
to their user names.
We know what type of operating system.
We're looking at the version,
the release I'd in the installed date and
time and the path to the operating system,
which will usually be see Windows.
Now, let's take a look
at some wireless network
information staying under Windows and T.
We're going to expand the current version
and we're looking for network list.
We're going to scroll down
until we find network list with
a highlight network list.
And you can see it lists the different
networks that the device was attached to,
and we can see a first connected and
a last connected time for these networks.
So it shows us the network's first
connection and last connection time.
And it shows us a Gateway Mac address.
All this can be very useful information
and our investigation to know
which networks the computer connected to,
when they first connected,
when it was last connected, and
the Gateway Mac address of that network.
We can see they're all wired networks.
The next thing we're going to take
a look at is user login information.
And we talked about it in the course, but
we're going to take a look at it here.
It's going to be under Microsoft Windows.
So we're going to scroll
back up close Windows NT and
we're going to expand the Windows Folder.
We're going to go to Microsoft Windows,
Currentversion.
We're going to expand Currentversion.
And we're going to expand authentication.
Once we've expanded authentication,
we're going to expand Logonui.
I we're going to go ahead and
highlight it.
We can see when we look,
it tells us the last logged on user's SED.
Now this is another place where knowing
the user's rid is going to be important to
identify that user.
And when we looked at the SAM file,
we saw that the User 1001 was Ivan sort
of telling us that Ivan is the last
logged on, user logged on SAM user Ivan.
So we know that Ivan was
the last logged on user and
we also have a key last write time.
So we know when Ivan was last logged on,
which was 2020 03 17 and
he was the last user to
log on to this computer.
Now we're going to take
a look at file association.
So under route,
we want the classes sub key.
We're going to expand classes and
we can see whole bunch of file extensions.
Now, what this key shows us is the default
program to open these types of files.
So if I were to look at
something like a D O C X,
it's going to tell me it's a doc file and
it's going to tell me it's open with list.
There is really not
a default program set here.
There's a list.
So it could be word pad or
it could be libre office.
Now, if we take a look at pdf's,
locate pdf's, expand it and
open with and pdf's are set,
it does have a default program
because this says open with
product IDs and it is chrome.
So pd's are set to open with chrome.
They actually have a default program set.
Whereas documents do not,
they have a list.
So you can open a document,
either word pad or leave our office.
We're going to take a look
at attached devices.
Now we're going to look for
the key sub key portable devices.
So that's going to be in
Microsoft Windows portable devices.
So again, I'm going to scroll
to the top and close this up.
I'm going to go to Microsoft Windows and
we're going to look at
the portable devices sub key.
Once we've located our
portable devices sub key,
we're going to go ahead and
expand it and we see devices,
we're going to drill down and underneath
there, we see a list of devices.
And if you hover over there you
can see the device name and
we can see the device serial number.
This right here, starting with 07
would be this devices serial number.
This device this here this 158
this is the devices serial number.
If we click on it, we can see
the friendly name of the device.
It's called hack tools.
This one friendly name does not
have a real friendly name, but
we can see it was mounted as drive F.
We can see that this one was mounted
asdrive G and it is a Kingston
data traveler that appears to just
be a generic USB flash drive.
And this device has a friendly
name of max storage and
that would be the serial number.
We also have a last
write time on this keys.
Keys last write time should be the last
time the device was attached to
the system.
So we have serial numbers.
We may have a friendly name if
the volume was given a name by the user,
such as Mac,
such as mac storage and hack tools.
And we do see drive letters for the other
volumes that do not have a volume label.
Our user created volume label.
We can see that one was mounted as drive
G and one was mounted his drive F.
And we can see the last times
that they were attached
to the system in the last
right times on these keys so
we can get some information also on USB
connected devices in the software file.
We're going to take a look at programs
that were installed on the system and
the software file and
the path to that is going to be Microsoft.
Windows Current version Uninstall
will navigate there under
the root under Microsoft.
When scroll down to Windows.
We're going to expand Windows,
we're going to expand current version and
we're looking for the uninstalled sub key,
going to expand uninstall.
And we're going to see information
about the programs that were installed
on the system and scroll through and
look at the information.
We can see the program name,
where the path the install location,
the path to where the file is installed,
the application.
We can see the version and
the display name as you scroll through.
You can see the install source and
the program name, the publisher and
what its display name is.
And this is C++ run time
each of these liquids
over here in the key name sub folder.
These grids will be the same for
every we were office heavy
C++ run time for
that particular growth and library.
You can see the installed dates and again,
that would be in UNIX and we would have
to decode that the same way we did.
We install date and
time again the install dating UNIX.
You usually have a display version.
You're going to have the uninstalled
string where the path to uninstall is.
You have the installed source and
you'll have the display name.
This is VM ware tools we're looking at.
So all this information can be very
useful in your investigation if
somebody says I didn't have a certain
program installed on my computer
because even if they've deleted
the program from the computer.
You can still find information
in the uninstall key.
Now we're going to take a look
at the auto start location and
that's going to be
Microsoft Windows current version
run programs under the run key start
when you boot into Windows and
this particular run key is
located in the software file.
So this is system wide settings for
programs to run its start up,
there is also a run key in the NT user and
that would be user specific
programs set to run at startup.
But this run key and
software is a system wide setting.
So we're going to look at
Microsoft Windows current version.
Run and we're in Microsoft Windows
current version.
But we want to see the run key and
there is the run key.
And when we highlight the run key, we can
see the programs that are set to run and
start up security, health,
the inbox tray and VM ware user processes.
So you can see these programs
are set to run at startup.
Malware can be installed in this key for
persistence and
then that malware will continue to run
every time the system is rebooted,
every time you log back into Windows.
So this can be a location for malware,
you should also check the Run
once key directly under Run,
there's nothing there, but
that could also be a location for malware.
Next, we're going to take a look at the
system high file, they're going to expand
system, and we're going to take
a look at the current control set.
So we're going to expand route, now,
there's only one control set on this
particular virtual machine but
usually there's two.
How you determine what was the last used
control set of the current control set,
is you highlight the select key.
When you highlight the select key,
you look at the user data and
it's going to tell you that the current
control set is control set one,
in this case it's also
the last known good.
Usually the last known good
will be control set to if
you have more than one
control set on the system.
So now we're going to take
a look at the computer name.
So we're going to stay in control set one,
expand it,
we're going to expand control and
we're going to look for computer name.
We're going to highlight computer name,
go ahead and expand computer name, and
underneath it you'll see
computer name again.
This tells us the name of the computer,
and this is the name of my computer,
desktop and then it has a number and
some letters after it.
Now when you're examining
multiple computers,
computer name can be very important,
you always want to document
that as part of your report.
Let's take a look at
the last shutdown time, and
that's going to be in control set one,
control and then Windows.
So we're in control set one control and
scroll down to Windows and
we're going to take a look
at the last shutdown time.
We see shutdown time right here,
and again,
this is something that's going to need
to be decoded, it's in hexadecimal.
It's 8 bytes long, so
it's 64 bit Windows file time.
So what we can do here
is copy value data and
we can use our decode to decode it.
You're going to have to take out the
dashes, decode does not like the dashes.
Once you have removed the dashes,
we want to make sure we tell it it's
hexadecimal and
it is going to be a little Indian.
So hexadecimal little Indian,
and then we decode,
now we're looking at Windows file time and
we can see Windows file time.
So it's telling us that
the last shutdown time,
because that's what looking at,
was 2020/03/16 at 23:07:25.
Now, that's local time, and we can
see it's offset from UTC by -4 hours.
The UTC time Would be +4 hours,
so it's going to be
2020 03:17 at 03:07:25.
So when you add four to this, you will
get The following day at three o'clock in
the morning, 3:07 and 25 seconds.
So that's how we would decode that,
it is hexadecimal little Indian,
and it is Windows file time.
It's 64 bit Windows file time, but
you'd select Windows file time, and
it gives it to you in
both the local time and
you can see the time offset,
and in UTC time.
We want to now take a look
at the crash dump settings,
crash dump can be saved and that's
going to depend on the registry settings.
So that happens when you get like the blue
screen of death in your computer crashes,
it will dump part of the memory
into what's called the crash dump.
And that would be another place
you'd look for to find memory RAM,
random access memory on
the hard drive itself.
So that would be under control set one,
control, crash control.
So we're in control set one
control Windows [COUGH]
So control set one control and
we're looking for crash control.
I like crash control And
we can see the location of the dump file.
Crash control is enabled and
we have a dump file, and
the path is a system route and
the dump file is going to be
named memory.dmp and
it's going to dump the memory.
Now crash control settings vary,
it is enabled.
Anything but
a zero in here means it's enabled.
Depending on which settings and
options the user chooses and
how much of the memory they
want to dump into this memory
dump file will determine
the number of the setting.
But if there's a number other than zero
in here, it means that it is enabled and
it will tell you the location
of the memory dump and
then you can analyze that with something
like volatility or another memory tool.
Now we're going to take a look at
services set to run at startup and
that's going to be under the root
control set one and services.
So under the root control set one,
we expand services.
These are all the services that
are set to run at startup,
and you can see this quite
a few things running when you
start up Windows, and
this happens by just logging in.
So you definitely want to take a look
here if you're looking for malware,
you see all the different services
that run automatically at startup.
>> It should be a good place for
persistence to have malware
that will persist after reboot.
So definitely take a look at services.
You can see it's quite a few
things running at startup.
Quite a few services.
Now, we're going to check the setting for
clear page file at shutdown.
Page file is another one
of those swap files with
Random Access Memory, RAM volatile memory.
So this is another location on the hard
drive where we may be able to recover
some information from RAM.
And the location of this
is control set one,
control session manager,
memory management.
So ,we going to take a look at it.
Control set one control.
Now we want to look at sessions,
Cross that one control.
We want to look at sessions.
Source we're going to expand
sessions manager, And
now we're going to look
at memory management.
And we can see the top value
clear page file at shutdown,
the data column shows us a zero.
So, the page file is not
set to clear at shut down.
And it shows you that the paging files, Is
located in the root and its Pagefile.sys.
And it shows existing Pagefile, is under
C, is under the root Pagefile.sys.
So, there is a Pagefile.sys there,
that can be examined and
you may find information from RAM,
Random Access Memory.
Now, let's move on to the NTUSER.DAT Hive.
So scroll to the top, go ahead and
just close up system and
let's look at the NTUSER.DAT Hive.
Now, every user on the system
has their own NTUSER.DAT Hive,
this is Ivan's NTUSER.DAT Hive.
When you're exporting NTUSER.DAT Hives,
it's a good idea to know who's
Hive somewhere in the file name.
Or you can get confused.
So, the first thing we're going to look at
is, we're going to look at recent docs.
Documents that were recently
used by this particular user.
And the file path is going to be
underneath the route, Software,
Microsoft Windows Current version,
We need to go down to Explorer,
Expand Explorer,
Underneath the Explorer,
we're going to find recent docs.
When we highlight this key,
this particular tool gives
us a very nice breakdown
of the recent documents.
You can see the recent documents,
you can see their MIU position.
Now we expand recent docs key,
you can see that they're
broken down by file type.
We can see extensions for JPGs, PDFs,
Power points, ZIP files, So
they're broken down by document type.
Each of these sub keys for document type
does have its own key last write time.
When we're looking at
the recent docs key as a whole,
you're going to see some of them
will have the last write time,
and that's coming from the last write
time Of each particular file type.
And you can scroll down,
you can see that all the recent documents,
and if something is showing up in here,
it was accessed by a user.
So if somebody says,
I didn't know that was on my computer and
it's showing up in recent docks,
it was accessed by that particular user.
If we take a look at PDFs,
We can see when the last PDF was accessed,
And what it was.
And then it goes down.
You can see MIU position
0 is the most recent one,
down to MIU position 18 would
be the least recent one.
That's how you read the MIU
orders from top to bottom.
So, the 0 is always going
to be the most recent,
the higher numbers will be least recent or
prior to that date,
that less right key date time.
But if you're interested in PDFs,
you could check there,
you can look at doc's,
You can look at HTMLs,
All your different file types, or you can
look at the recent docs key as a whole.
The next thing we're going to
talk about is typed URLs sub key.
URLs that are typed into the search bar,
the Windows Explorer search bar.
No.
So we're going to go into Software
Microsoft Internet Explorer typed URLs.
And these are typed into
the Internet Explorer search bar.
So if you're using IE and you type
a search term into the search bar, or
something is completed by auto complete,
it will show up in typed URLS.
But if you're using another browser,
it's not going to,
this is a Internet Explorer feature only.
So we can take a look
at software Microsoft.
And now we're looking for
Internet Explorer,
expand Internet Explorer and
we're looking for tight URLs.
We only see one URL,type there.
What doesn't look like this particular
user used Internet Explorer
as his main browser.
So we would want to look for other browser
information elsewhere in the system.
We're going to take a look at the run and
run one ski in the end to user dot that
high file and this key is user specific.
In other words, these are programs
set to run it start up for
that particular user and
the path of that is going to be under
software Once we expand the root
of the Nt user dot dad.
Hi, we're going to be under software
Microsoft Windows current version.
And then we're looking for the run key.
R-U-N key.
Here's the run key.
And for the Ivan user we
can see that one drive and
google drive sync are set
to run at startup.
So if we're doing an investigation,
we know we've got a one drive and play and
a google drive and play and it gives us
the locations to those executed bals.
We can gain some additional information
about our case that we know now that
we need to look for a one drive and
that there's a google drive sync going on.
So we want to check for google drive also.
Now we're going to take a look at
Word wheel query and Word wheel query
deals with search terms typed into
the Windows Explorer Bar by the user and
the Windows Explorer,
not the Internet Explorer.
So you're searching within the file
system for a file and that's going to be
under Software Microsoft, Windows
current version, which is where we are.
So we're going to scroll up and
find Explorer.
I'm going to expand Explorer and
we're going to scroll down to find
word wheel query and
we can see two things in ward, real query.
We've got electric grid in drugs.
So at some point in time I haven't
either brought up a file Explorer and
searched for these in this box here or
he searched down at the bottom
in the Windows search pain.
So we know he was interested
in electric grid and drugs.
Again, the position order zero would
be the most recent, followed by one.
This can be very helpful in
an investigation to find out what
the user was searching for
and within their own system
gives us an indication what was
going on with that particular user.
And that concludes our
windows registry walkthrough.
So we've got taken a look at quite a bit
of information in this walkthrough,
both system wide settings and
user specific settings.
There's a lot more to the registry.
But this is just a basic
overview of the Windows registry.